feat(weave): Add initial suite of scorers, refactor weave/flow (#2662)
wandb/weave: docs/docs/guides/evaluation/scorers.md

Reviewer: You should check to see if the code snippets are copy-pasteable.  I think a few have syntax errors like missing commas, etc.

Reviewer: Make sure they are copy-pasteable sans the client, then run the formatter on them and them back here

Reviewer: The easiest way is to just lift them straight from your tests

Reviewer: per discussion with @scottire last week I think these examples should be fleshed out without any `...` sections.

You can use the `#highlight-next-line` pragma to highlight the important bits

# Evaluation Metrics

## Evaluations in Weave

> In Weave, Scorers are used to evaluate AI outputs and return evaluation metrics They take the AI's output, analyze it, and return a dictionary with the results. Scorers can use your input data as a reference if needed and can also output extra information, such as explanations or reasonings from the evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Weave, Scorers are used to evaluate AI outputs and return evaluation metrics. They take the AI's output, analyze it, and return a dictionary of results. Scorers can use your input data as reference if needed and can also output extra information, such as explanations or reasonings from the evaluation.
```

Scorers are passed to a `weave.Evaluation` object during evaluation. There are two types of Scorers in weave:

1. **Function-based Scorers:** Simple Python functions decorated with `@weave.op`.
2. **Class-based Scorers:** Python classes that inherit from `weave.Scorer` for more complex evaluations.

> Scorers must return a dictionary and can return multiple metrics, nested metrics and non-numeric values such as texted returned from a LLM-evaluator about its reasoning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scorers must return a dictionary and can return multiple metrics, nested metrics and non-numeric values such as text returned from a LLM-evaluator about its reasoning.
```

## Function-based Scorers

> These are functions, decorated with @weave.op that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations:

Reviewer: These are functions decorated with `@weave.op` that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations like:

> These are functions, decorated with @weave.op that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are functions decorated with `@weave.op` that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations like:
````

```python
@weave.op
def evaluate_uppercase(text: str):

>     return  {"text_is_uppercase": text.isupper()}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return {"text_is_uppercase": text.isupper()}
```

eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[evaluate_uppercase])
```

When the evaluation is run, `evaluate_uppercase` checks if the text is all uppercase.

## Class-based Scorers

> For more advanced evaluations, especially when you need to keep track of additional scorer metadata, try different prompts for your LLM-evaluators or make multiple function calls, you can use the `Scorer` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more advanced evaluations, especially when you need to keep track of additional scorer metadata, try different prompts for your LLM-evaluators, or make multiple function calls, you can use the `Scorer` class.
```

**Requirements:**

> - Inherit from `weave.Scorer`.
> - Define a `score` method decorated with `@weave.op`.
> - The `score` method must return a dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Inherit from `weave.Scorer`.
2. Define a `score` method decorated with `@weave.op`.
3. The `score` method must return a dictionary.
```suggestion

Example:

```python
from weave import Scorer

class SummarizationScorer(Scorer):
    model_id: str = "the LLM model to use"
    system_prompt: str = "Evaluate whether the summary is good."

    @weave.op
    def some_complicated_preprocessing(text):
        ...
        return text

    @weave.op
    def llm_call(summary, text):
        res = create(self.system_prompt, summary, text)
        return {"summary_quality": res}

    @weave.op

>     def score(output, text)

Reviewer: add types

        '''
            output: The summary generated by an AI system
            text: The original text being summarised
        '''
        text = some_complicated_preprocessing(text)
        eval_result = call_llm(summary, text, self.prompt)
        return {"summary_quality": eval_result}

summarization_scorer = SummarizationScorer(model_id="o2")
eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[summarization_scorer])
```
This class evaluates how good a summary is by comparing it to the original text.

## How Scorers Work
### Keyword Arguments
Scorers can access both the output from your AI system and the input data.

- **Output:** Include an `output` parameter in your scorer function's signature to access the AI system's output.

- **Input:** Add parameters that match the names of the columns in your dataset to access input data.

> 

Reviewer: nit: I would reverse the order: input and output

> For example, if your dataset has a "news_article" column, you can access it in the scorer by adding a `news_article` parameter to your scorer's signature.

Reviewer: aside: was this obvious to you?  This still trips me up from time to time

Author: updated

### Mapping Column Names
Sometimes, the scorer's parameter names don't match the column names in your dataset. You can fix this using a `column_map`.

If you're using a class-based scorer, pass a dictionary to the `column_map` attribute of `Scorer` when you initialise your scorer class. This dictionary maps your scorer's parameter names to the dataset's column names, in the order: `{scorer keyword argument : dataset column name}`.

Example:

```python
from weave import Scorer

# A dataset with news articles to be summarised
dataset = [
    {"news_article": "The news today was great...", "date": "2030-04-20", "source": "Bright Sky Network"}
    ...
]

# Scorer class
class SummarizationScorer(Scorer)
    
    @weave.op
    def score(output, text)
        """
            output: output summary from a LLM summarization system
            text: the text being summarised
        """
        ...  # evaluate the quality of the summary

# create a scorer with a column mapping the `text` parameter to the `news_article` data column

> scorer = SummarizationScorer(column_map = {"text" : "news_article"})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scorer = SummarizationScorer(column_map={"text" : "news_article"})
```

(should run this code through our formatter)

```
Here, the `text` parameter in the score method will receive data from the `news_article` column.

## Predefined Scorers

**LLM-evaluators**

> The pre-defined scorers that use LLMs support the OpenAI, Anthropic, Google GenerativeAI and MistralAI clients. They also uses weave's `InstructorLLMScorer` class, so you'll need to install the [`instructor`](https://github.com/instructor-ai/instructor) Python package to be able to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pre-defined scorers that use LLMs support the OpenAI, Anthropic, Google GenerativeAI and MistralAI clients. They also use `weave`'s `InstructorLLMScorer` class, so you'll need to install the [`instructor`](https://github.com/instructor-ai/instructor) Python package to be able to use them.  You can get all necessary dependencies with `pip install "weave[scorers]"`
```

Reviewer: You may also want to show an example of one of these evaluators

### `HallucinationFreeScorer`

This scorer checks if your AI system's output includes any hallucinations based on the input data.

```python
from weave.scorers import HallucinationFreeScorer

llm_client = # initialize your LLM client here

scorer = HallucinationFreeScorer(
    client=llm_client, 
    model_id="gpt4o"
)
```

**Customization:**
- Customize the `system_prompt` and `user_prompt` attributes of the scorer to define what "hallucination" means for you.

**Notes:**

> - The `score` method expects an input column named `context`. If your dataset uses a different name, use the `column_map` attribute to map `context` to the dataset column.

Reviewer: may want to show an example of that mapping here

---

### `SummarizationScorer`

Use an LLM to compare a summary to the original text and evaluate the quality of the summary.

```python
from weave.scorers import SummarizationScorer

llm_client = # initialize your LLM client here

scorer = SummarizationScorer(
    client=llm_client, 
    model_id="gpt4o"
)
```

**How It Works:**

This scorer evaluates summaries in two ways:

1. **Entity Density:** Checks the ratio of unique entities (like names, places, or things) mentioned in the summary to the total word count in the summary in order to estimate the "information density" of the summary. Uses an LLM to extract the entities. Similar to how entity density is used in the Chain of Density paper, https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04269

2. **Quality Grading:** Uses an LLM-evaluator to grade the summary as `poor`, `ok`, or `excellent`. These grades are converted to scores (0.0 for poor, 0.5 for ok, and 1.0 for excellent) so you can calculate averages.

**Customization:**
- Adjust `summarization_evaluation_system_prompt` and `summarization_evaluation_prompt` to define what makes a good summary.

**Notes:**
- This scorer uses the `InstructorLLMScorer` class.

> - The `score` method expects the original text that was summarized to be present in the `input` column of the dataset. Use the `column_map` class attribute to map `input` to the correct dataset column if needed.

Reviewer: this note appears in a few places.  You may want to link back to the section that shows how to do this.

Author: will leave it for now

---

### `OpenAIModerationScorer`

The `OpenAIModerationScorer` uses OpenAI's Moderation API to check if the AI system's output contains disallowed content, such as hate speech or explicit material.

```python

> from weave.flow.scorers.moderation_scorer import OpenAIModerationScorer

Reviewer: The flow import here feels awkward -- maybe better to just do `weave.scorers.moderation_scorer`

import openai

oai_client = OpenAI(api_key=...) # initialize your LLM client here

scorer = OpenAIModerationScorer(
    client=oai_client,
    model_id="text-embedding-3-small"
)
```

**How It Works:**

- Sends the AI's output to the OpenAI Moderation endpoint and returns a dictionary indicating whether the content is flagged and details about the categories involved.

**Notes:**
- Requires the `openai` Python package.
- The client must be an instance of OpenAI's `OpenAI` or `AsyncOpenAI` client.

---

### `EmbeddingSimilarityScorer`

The `EmbeddingSimilarityScorer` computes the cosine similarity between the embeddings of the AI system's output and a target text from your dataset. It's useful for measuring how similar the AI's output is to a reference text.

```python
from weave.flow.scorers.similarity_score import EmbeddingSimilarityScorer

llm_client = ...  # initialise your LlM client

similarity_scorer = EmbeddingSimilarityScorer(
    client=llm_client
    target_column="reference_text",  # the dataset column to compare the output against

>     threshold=0.4  # the cosine similarity threshold to use  

Reviewer: Not everyone will know what this is.  It might be helpful to give some context for what a reasonable range is, or how to think about setting this threshold

Reviewer: In future this may also be a good place to link to resources like an arxiv paper or some research we've done internally

```python
from weave.flow.scorers.xml_scorer import ValidXMLScorer

xml_scorer = ValidXMLScorer()
```

---

### `PydanticScorer`

The `PydanticScorer` validates the AI system's output against a Pydantic model to ensure it adheres to a specified schema or data structure.

```python
from weave.flow.scorers.pydantic_scorer import PydanticScorer
from pydantic import BaseModel

class FinancialReport(BaseModel):
    revenue: int
    year: str

pydantic_scorer = PydanticScorer(model=Person)
```

---

### RAGAS - `ContextEntityRecallScorer`

The `ContextEntityRecallScorer` estimates context recall by extracting entities from both the AI system's output and the provided context, then computing the recall score. Based on the [RAGAS](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas) evaluation library

```python
from weave.flow.scorers.ragas_scorer import ContextEntityRecallScorer

llm_client = ...  # initialise your LlM client

entity_recall_scorer = ContextEntityRecallScorer(
    client=llm_client
    model_id="your-model-id"
    )
```

**How It Works:**

- Uses an LLM to extract unique entities from the output and context.

> - Calculates recall as the proportion of entities in the output that are present in the context.

Reviewer: May benefit from more explanation -- not everyone will know what recall is or how to interpret/set it

Author: adding 1 more line of explanation

# Evaluation Metrics

## Evaluations in Weave
In Weave, Scorers are used to evaluate AI outputs and return evaluation metrics. They take the AI's output, analyze it, and return a dictionary of results. Scorers can use your input data as reference if needed and can also output extra information, such as explanations or reasonings from the evaluation.

Scorers are passed to a `weave.Evaluation` object during evaluation. There are two types of Scorers in weave:

1. **Function-based Scorers:** Simple Python functions decorated with `@weave.op`.
2. **Class-based Scorers:** Python classes that inherit from `weave.Scorer` for more complex evaluations.

Scorers must return a dictionary and can return multiple metrics, nested metrics and non-numeric values such as text returned from a LLM-evaluator about its reasoning.

## Function-based Scorers
These are functions decorated with `@weave.op` that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations like:

```python
@weave.op
def evaluate_uppercase(text: str):
    return {"text_is_uppercase": text.isupper()}

> eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[evaluate_uppercase])

Reviewer: nit: Don't overwrite the `eval` builtin

Author: updated

# Evaluation Metrics

## Evaluations in Weave
In Weave, Scorers are used to evaluate AI outputs and return evaluation metrics. They take the AI's output, analyze it, and return a dictionary of results. Scorers can use your input data as reference if needed and can also output extra information, such as explanations or reasonings from the evaluation.

Scorers are passed to a `weave.Evaluation` object during evaluation. There are two types of Scorers in weave:

1. **Function-based Scorers:** Simple Python functions decorated with `@weave.op`.
2. **Class-based Scorers:** Python classes that inherit from `weave.Scorer` for more complex evaluations.

Scorers must return a dictionary and can return multiple metrics, nested metrics and non-numeric values such as text returned from a LLM-evaluator about its reasoning.

> ## Function-based Scorers

Reviewer: I think it could be helpful to put a heading here called "Create your own Scorers" which complements the "Predefined Scorers" below.

These are functions decorated with `@weave.op` that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations like:

```python
@weave.op
def evaluate_uppercase(text: str):
    return {"text_is_uppercase": text.isupper()}

eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[evaluate_uppercase])
```

When the evaluation is run, `evaluate_uppercase` checks if the text is all uppercase.

## Class-based Scorers
For more advanced evaluations, especially when you need to keep track of additional scorer metadata, try different prompts for your LLM-evaluators, or make multiple function calls, you can use the `Scorer` class.

**Requirements:**
1. Inherit from `weave.Scorer`.
2. Define a `score` method decorated with `@weave.op`.
3. The `score` method must return a dictionary.

Example:

```python
from weave import Scorer
from weave.scorers import create

llm_client = ...

class SummarizationScorer(Scorer):
    model_id: str = "the LLM model to use"
    system_prompt: str = "Evaluate whether the summary is good."

>     @weave.op

Reviewer: I notice that you seem to decorate all of the functions inside Scorers.  Do you think this should be done automatically for any non-underscore-prefixed func?  Or would the lack of decoration make it less obvious?

Author: No I think whether or not it gets decorated depends on what the function does

Scorers can access both the output from your AI system and the input data from the dataset row.

- **Input:** If you would like your scorer to use data from your dataset row, such as a "label" or "target" column then you can easily make this available to the scorer by adding a `label` or `target` keyword argument to your scorer definition.

For example if you wanted to use a column called "label" from your dataset then your scorer function (or `score` class method) would have a parameter list like this:

```python
@weave.op
def my_custom_scorer(outout: str, label: int):
    ...
```

When a weave `Evaluation` is run, the output of the AI system is passed to the `output` parameter. The `Evaluation` also automatically tries to match any additional scorer parameter names to your dataset columns. If customizing your scorer parameters or dataset columns is not feasible, you can use column mapping - see below for more.

- **Output:** Include an `output` parameter in your scorer function's signature to access the AI system's output.

### Mapping Column Names
Sometimes, the scorer's parameter names don't match the column names in your dataset. You can fix this using a `column_map`.

> If you're using a class-based scorer, pass a dictionary to the `column_map` attribute of `Scorer` when you initialise your scorer class. This dictionary maps your scorer's parameter names to the dataset's column names, in the order: `{scorer keyword argument : dataset column name}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a class-based scorer, pass a dictionary to the `column_map` attribute of `Scorer` when you initialise your scorer class. This dictionary maps your scorer's parameter names to the dataset's column names, in the order: `{scorer_keyword_argument: dataset_column_name}`.
```

---

### `ValidXMLScorer`

The `ValidXMLScorer` checks whether the AI system's output is valid XML. This is useful when expecting XML-formatted outputs.

```python
from weave.scorers import ValidXMLScorer

xml_scorer = ValidXMLScorer()
```

---

### `PydanticScorer`

The `PydanticScorer` validates the AI system's output against a Pydantic model to ensure it adheres to a specified schema or data structure.

```python
from weave.scorers import PydanticScorer
from pydantic import BaseModel

class FinancialReport(BaseModel):
    revenue: int
    year: str

pydantic_scorer = PydanticScorer(model=Person)
```

---

### RAGAS - `ContextEntityRecallScorer`

The `ContextEntityRecallScorer` estimates context recall by extracting entities from both the AI system's output and the provided context, then computing the recall score. Based on the [RAGAS](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas) evaluation library

```python
from weave.scorers import ContextEntityRecallScorer

llm_client = ...  # initialise your LlM client

entity_recall_scorer = ContextEntityRecallScorer(
    client=llm_client
    model_id="your-model-id"

>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
)
```

# Evaluation Metrics

## Evaluations in Weave
In Weave, Scorers are used to evaluate AI outputs and return evaluation metrics. They take the AI's output, analyze it, and return a dictionary of results. Scorers can use your input data as reference if needed and can also output extra information, such as explanations or reasonings from the evaluation.

Scorers are passed to a `weave.Evaluation` object during evaluation. There are two types of Scorers in weave:

1. **Function-based Scorers:** Simple Python functions decorated with `@weave.op`.
2. **Class-based Scorers:** Python classes that inherit from `weave.Scorer` for more complex evaluations.

Scorers must return a dictionary and can return multiple metrics, nested metrics and non-numeric values such as text returned from a LLM-evaluator about its reasoning.

## Create your own Scorers
### Function-based Scorers
These are functions decorated with `@weave.op` that return a dictionary. They're great for simple evaluations like:

```python
@weave.op
def evaluate_uppercase(text: str):
    return {"text_is_uppercase": text.isupper()}

> my_eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[evaluate_uppercase])

Reviewer: same here, let's just flesh out the example with something copy-able.

We have the `#highlight-next-line` pragma to highlight the weave-specific bits

```

When the evaluation is run, `evaluate_uppercase` checks if the text is all uppercase.

### Class-based Scorers
For more advanced evaluations, especially when you need to keep track of additional scorer metadata, try different prompts for your LLM-evaluators, or make multiple function calls, you can use the `Scorer` class.

**Requirements:**
1. Inherit from `weave.Scorer`.
2. Define a `score` method decorated with `@weave.op`.
3. The `score` method must return a dictionary.

Example:

```python

> from weave import Scorer

Reviewer: I think this example should be copy-paste-able.  Maybe make the default openai?

llm_client = ...

class SummarizationScorer(Scorer):
    model_id: str = "the LLM model to use"
    system_prompt: str = "Evaluate whether the summary is good."

    @weave.op
    def some_complicated_preprocessing(self, text: str) -> str:
        ...
        return text

    @weave.op
    def ask_llm(self, summary: str, text: str) -> dict:
        res = llm_client.create(self.system_prompt, summary, text)
        return {"summary_quality": res}

    @weave.op
    def score(self, output: str, text: str) -> dict:
        """
        output: The summary generated by an AI system
        text: The original text being summarised
        """
        text = self.some_complicated_preprocessing(text)
        eval_result = self.ask_llm(output, text)
        return {"summary_quality": eval_result}

summarization_scorer = SummarizationScorer(model_id="o2")

> eval = weave.Evaluations(..., scorers=[summarization_scorer])

Reviewer: don't shadow the `eval` func; use `evaluation` instead
